Hi Chris,

Here's a bit more feedback on the general thrust of the game based on playing it through it's various iterations over a period of months. Once again, it's only my opinion and feel free to ignore it.

The game has some really good features in it. The main map is simple but remarkedly effective and intriguing. It pulls you in and the base 4X game loop works well in the context of the map. You're always looking at it wondering where you can conquer next and how to shore up a problem flank.

You've also got some really innovative design features in there.

But neither of these are enough to overcome the current issues which you seem to be accentuating over time rather than minimising.

There's not currently enough to do for the Player (see previous post) and the 'conquer or colonise a new star' rinse and repeat cycle gets old quick.

You're main issues, as I see it, are poor feedback, lots of meaningless decisions and an interface that fights you rather than helps.

Yep, I know it's still got a lot of development still remaining but as you've just declared a Beta I thought it a good time to pass on feedback on the game, as it is.

--- Poor Feedback
This runs right through the game. You've got a lot of interesting stuff going on but the Player is kept in the dark. I know you're going for a big picture, Emperor level, type game here but you can still have this and give feedback. Without feedback that tells the Player how a mechanic works, the game system that drives that mechanic becomes meaningless.

An example are your Planetary Governors. They, like the planets themselves, have the potential to be really interesting. Something that the Player could associate with and generate stories around. But all they are at present are a face and a name. You don't care about them.

Why not? Because you have no way of telling what sort of job they are doing. They have all the numbers attached to them but they are meaningless because the game doesn't tell you what effect they are having. If you took the numbers off their portraits it'd make no difference as they are just a collection of anonymous faces that you don't care about.

The only decisions you have regarding Governors (court decisions) are non-decisions as your choice is obvious.

On the other hand if you gave clear tool tips that showed that Governor Smith has having such and such and effect on this or that planetary mechanic then you might start taking an interest in him.

You've introduced Planetary grants which is great but they are disconnected from your Governors. Why? What's the point of having a Governor if you don't tie him into the mechanics that govern the planet? Make him someone that people care about.

I gave an idea earlier (I'm using this to highlight the point not to push a barrow) that any money you tip into a planet in the form of grants is affected by the Governors Corruption rating (he siphons off a cut) and the effectiveness of the injection of funds depends on his ability. These may well be crap ideas but, if nothing else, they would make the Governor of a planet more of a focal point. You'd be taking a strong interest in who was in charge as it was affecting your ability to develop, or defend, the planet. Governor Smith becomes somebody who you would be keeping an eye on.

On the subject of planets the population growth (pretty critical) is also a black box. There's a tool tip that tells lists the various factors that affect it but it's generic. Why not give specifics - the planet is growing slowly because of the incompetent Governor (growth - 5%), shortage of food (growth - 11%) etc. Once the Player knows how the system works he'd take an interest in the various factors but with no feedback provided it's just 'something that happens'.

I could say the same for the planetary budget and the on-planet developments such as cities and power plants. What's the point of it being there if it's just another black box?

If you've got a mechanic in the game I'd be giving Players feedback on how it works, regardless. Deliberately not doing so because it interferes with the Emperor level approach is just going to annoy people. It's also going to have them getting bored pretty quick as there are going to be big chunks of the game that are just background noise due to the Player having no chance of understanding how it works 'cause of the lack of feedback.

You've got a really good fleet building and management mechanic but then there is the hordes of officers running it all. They are like the Governors above - anonymous & uninteresting because you don't know what effect they have. Does it matter that you have a highly competent admiral versus a dud? Who knows as the player has no way of telling what difference it makes? 

If you're not going to make it crystal clear what their various stats do (I'm in a battle, what effect does the Admiral of the Fleet have on that? What effect do his officers have?) there isn't much point in having them there as they are just decoration.

Fleet battles, planetary invasions. Jeez. Who knows what is going on? Click the button and move on. Having a 'click button' combat resolution system is O.K but you've got to provide a h*ll of a lot more feedback on what happened than just a '3 battleships lost, 2 damaged' report. 

Most of your Research technologies are keyed around combat factors. What effect do these have in a battle? Why should I build one ship type rather than another? Without adequate feedback the whole research & battle game systems are meaningless.

You could make a really good combat results screen that gives people info on the above. I know you don't want to add any more features but I don't think you can get around this one. This and the research mechanic are huge feedback black holes that need addressing.

It'd also be an opportunity to highlight all those officers. It could, for example, lets you know that Admiral Jones did an outstanding job as did one of the lesser officers when the going got tough. Generate events to give one a medal, another to reprimand a poor performer. Pull the characters into the mechanic and give them some meaning. 

Court Mechanics






