Game Overview

Core Concept
A Game about People, Power and Treachey

Act 1
1. Gather Support & Evade Capture
2. Call the Banners! Instigate Revolt and take Power (Boss Fight)
Act 2
3. Rule the Land and Prepare for a Threat
4. Deal with the Threat (Boss Fight)

Act 1 - Core Game Elements
Gather Support -> Lords (only NPC that matters, all other NPC's provide ancillary functions)
Evade Capture -> Game of Cat and Mouse
Boss Fight -> Who declares for whom? (penultimate moment). 

Act 2 - Core Game Elements
Rule the Land ->Walk the Tightrope -> Balance Lord Loyalty -> threat of being assassinated., Balance Kingdom Management ->  threat of Revolt, Balance Threat Preparation -> Varies depending on Threat
Boss Fight -> Overcome threat and retain power

Core Game Details

Act 1 - How to Gain Support?
Two ways - 'Unconditional support' (raise relations to a high level, use an item) / 'Bribe' - agree to the Lord's demands (goodies or Policies) / 'BlackMail' or 'Seduce' (challenge) 
Key: Lords are difficult to talk to if against you -> need an introduction
Lords who support you can be difficult to persuade -> need favours from an ancillary character in order to sway their opinion
Talking to a Lord (or NPC) stages -> get allowed into the castle (announce yourself, use introduction, sneak challenge) / get permission to meet with person in private (you can instigate a challenge) / get permission to meet in public (They give you a message)

Act 1 - How to Evade Capture?
King has 'Inquisitors' that move around the map searching for the Player. There can be other, special, characters also looking for the Player. All are individual characters. There are background Kings troops and Patrols that you can meet through events
Evading searchers at Locations involve going into hiding (safe houses -same system as disguises) and on the road, use of disguises (have a set amount of 'use', eg 5 stars, degrade over time and everytime somebody gets suspicious)
Limited info of position of searchers on main map -> info comes from minions and informants
Entering locations unannounced requires a disguise or a secret entrance or use of a Sneak Challenge (into castle for an audience)
Player decisions to be either 'Active' (announce I am he) or 'Passive'. Active draws attention like Lord Of the Rings & the Wraith Riders but gets you automatic entry into a castle. Passive requires disguise, secret passages, favours, introductions, private meetings, etc.
Invisibility meter varies depending on current activity (or perhaps have a simple Active / Passive mode?) - Disguise and Safe House degradation handle the invisibility meter
Balance as Player needs to flip from Active to Passive to avoid capture but Active gives a lot more flexibility of action than Passive.
Inquisitor numbers go up over time (meter that ratchets up for every turn that the Player is 'Active' or from messages from 'Informants')
Informants are NPC characters who work on behalf of the Royal Spider (they are hidden).

Act 1 - How do Fail States Work?
Getting captured by a Lord -> Thrown into a local dungeon and await an Inquisitor -> can be released by a supporter
Getting captured by an Inquisitor -> Evade challenge otherwise taken back to Capital, thrown into dungeon, -> chance of being released by a fifth Column
Getting captured by a Special Character -> Evade challenge otherwise suffer fate
Possible fail states -> Placed in Dungeon (escape challenge?) / Killed (in a challenge only) -. can be resucsitated by an organisation
Aim for dramatic outcomes but make sure that there are possible get-out-of-jail cards for them all (in limited amounts) - Wounds, Sickness, Curse, Death, Incarceration, Torture, Poisoned
Before the Player dies he will hopefully experience a number of dramatic outcomes.

Act 1 - What role to non-Lord NPC's perform?
Relationship with Lord for all characters at the same Location, eg. rel - 20 "lusts after", base 50
Good relationship with Lord -> can influence Lord if you can get them on side
Bad relations with Lord -> can harm Lord (poison, accident) if you can get them on side -> can act as your informant

Act 2 - How do you Balance Lord Loyalty?


Act 2 - How do you Balance Kingdom Management?
Balance key policy decisions where you may have to choose between appeasing a Lord, appeasing a God or managing the Kingdom

Act 2 - How do Decisions work?
Do you handle it yourself or delegate to the relevant council member?
You have limited ability to do things yourself.

Act 2 - How do you Balance Threat Preparation?


Other Game Details

What role do Minions Play?
Information gathering. Various minions specialise in gathering certain types of info. Some have special abilities. All have a general ability.
Minions can't be hurt, they can only be delayed.
Communicate via crows. You can view their location at any time you have crow contact with them.
Can send back intel, secrets and intel, etc. Provide the hooks you need to fine tune your approach in a Location.

What role do the Gods Play?
Provide ability to get better Challenge outcomes. Different Gods affect different challenge types, eg. Combat (God of War), Seduce (God of Love)
There is a cost of using Gods, they require you appease them by choosing special event options (ones that you normally wouldn't choose) - How to balance this (with multiple Gods)?
An unhappy God will take action against you.
How do Gods interface with Religions? What do you choose at the start - a God or a Religion? Does there need to be multiple gods or do you just deal with the one you've chosen?
Or do you get one favour from each God and the payment comes from special events once you've gained power?

What role do Organisations Play?
Give special abilities with a cool down period, accessible at any location.
Can come with a price.
Need to establish contact with an organisation through an NPC who is a member (generally a secret)
Some organisations can work against you if you go against their doctrine.

What role do Items Play?
Few and powerful
Each game features a randomised, limited selection from a roster
Items can be given at the start of the game or hidden in the game world (a trail of breadcrumbs is given)
Can have one item at a time. Alternative uses -> give to a minion (special minion ability - minion might decide to run off with it), hide (give to an NPC for safe keeping)

What role do Companions Play?
They buff your stats
One companion at a time
Companions can die
Do I need companions (do away with an extra mechanic? Couldn't a minion be a companion?

What role do Inns Play?


What role do content unlocks have?
Kings to overthrow
Items in the game
Organisations

Act 3 -> Attempt to Overthrow Yourself in a previously won game

Mechanics
Player is assumed to return immediately after the threat has been resolved (previous game) and is the (bastard?) son / daughter of the New King in the previous game
King that you overthrow is yourself in the previous game -> import character and back story
Houses and previous game NPC's are as before, along with loyalties -> import
Items -> Track which are in the game, which are hidden, destroyed or still present (in possession of the king) -> import (provide secrets and breadcrumbs to location of a hidden item)
Add some special archetypes to Houses that reference your previous game.
Make sure your minions roster don't include those in the previous game.
Only ever one Act 3 (can't keep repeating)
Steam workshop support of importing other peoples games so you can play an Act 3 vs. them (how to handle mods?)

Relevant Game Play in Act 2 of Previous Game
Balance improving your security (more inquisitors, more informants, strengthen castle walls, upgrade army) which help you retain power (chance of assassination or revolt) but make it tougher in Act 3
Balance in treatment of Items (do you retain them, hide them or destroy them?) Balance their use vs. the threat that they could be used against you in Act 3. Why not retain them? Risk that they could be stolen from you. Make you a bigger target (a-la-The One Ring to Rule them All)


Act 3 -> Issues to Resolve
Importing characters requires identical trait.txt files (or does it once the character already has the trait assigned?) -> Maybe just the trait dictionary, add any new ones in the game but retain all the old.
Importing houses requires archetype & event files
Alternative is to proc generate NPC actors in new game? Or give them new stats? Randomise secrets, orgs, informants, etc.



